---
title: Step Configuration
layout: page
weight: 95
tags:
  - jet
  - configuration
  - steps
categories:
  - jet
---

Steps are used for the `jet steps` command, which defines your continuous integration and delivery steps. By default, steps are expected to be in one of these 4 files:

* `jet-steps.yml`
* `jet-steps.json`
* `codeship-steps.yml`
* `codeship-steps.json`

_Jet_ will look for a steps file in this order. The file name can be overridden with the `--steps-path` flag.
Both YAML and JSON formats are accepted.

Steps are specified in a list, such as:

```yml
- name: foo_step
  tag: master
  service: app
  command: echo foo
- name: bar_step
  service: app
  command: echo bar
```

Steps are executed in the order they are specified. All steps share two directives:

* `name` specifies the name of the step, outputted in the logs. This must be unique for all steps. **This field is optional** and will be auto-generated if not specified.
* `tag` this says to only execute this step for the given "tag". Within Codeship this will be the branch or tag name. You can specify this locally via the `--tag` flag. This field is optional.

There are two main kinds of steps, group steps and run steps.

## Group Steps

There are three types of group steps:

* `parallel` run the sub-steps in parallel. Feel free to specify this recursively as much as you want, _Jet_ will just max out the number of available processors. If any sub-step fails, the parallel step fails as well.
* `serial` run the sub-steps serially. This is useful for grouping within parallel steps.

Group steps all share four directives:

* `type` the step type, one of `parallel`, `serial` or matrix.
* `steps` a list of sub-steps.
* `service`, `services` You can specify a service or list of services for your run steps to run on.

The former is a single string, the latter is a list of strings, and at most one of these can be specified. If you specify a service, you cannot specify a service for your run steps. If you specify a list of services, all sub-steps will be run in one of two ways. For parallel steps, the sub-steps will be run as if you specified a serial step containing the sub-steps for each service. For serial steps, the services will be run in parallel. Since that's confusing, here's a logically equivalent example:

```yaml
- type parallel
  steps:
  - type: serial
    steps:
      - service: foo
        command: echo one
      - service: foo
        command: echo two
  - type: serial
    steps:
      - service: bar
        command: echo one
      - service: bar
        command: echo two

# the same as the above
- type parallel
  services:
  - foo
  - bar
  steps:
  - command: echo one
  - command: echo two

- service: foo
  command: echo one
- service: foo
  command: echo two
- service: bar
  command: echo one
- service: bar
  command: echo two

# the same as the above
- type serial
  services:
  - foo
  - bar
  steps:
  - command: echo one
  - command: echo two
```

## Run steps

Run steps specify a command to run on a service. You must specify one or two directives:

* `command` the command to run. This is always required, and identifies a step as a run step. Note that quotes are respected to split up arguments, but special characters such as `&&`, `|` or `>` are not.
* `service` the service to run the command on. If the run step is a sub-step of a matrix step, `service` cannot be specified, otherwise it is required.
