---
title: Continuous Delivery to Heroku with Docker
tags:
  - deployment
  - heroku
  - docker
categories:
  - docker
---

To make it easy for you to deploy your application to Heroku we've built a container that has the Heroku Toolbelt and additional scripts installed. We will set up a simple example showing you how to configure the deployment.

The container configuration is open source and can be found in the [codeship-library/heroku-deployment](https://github.com/codeship-library/heroku-deployment) project on Github. It includes a working example that gets deployed as part of an integration test before we push a new container to the Docker Hub.

The deployment uses the [Heroku Platform API](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/build-and-release-using-the-api) to deploy your application, so no SSH key management is necessary.

## Dockerfile

Create an additional `Dockerfile` in your repository that is used to deploy your application. You can name it something like `Dockerfile.deploy`. The `codeship/heroku-deployment` container will automatically copy the content of your repository into the new container as we've set [ONBUILD](https://docs.docker.com/reference/builder/#onbuild) instructions.

```Dockerfile
FROM codeship/heroku-deployment:latest
```

## Authentication

Before setting up the `codeship-services.yml` and `codeship-steps.yml` file we're going to create an encrypted environment file that contains the Heroku API Key.

Take a look at our [encrypted environment files documentation](...) and add a `heroku-deployment.env.encrypted` file to your repository. The file needs to contain an encrypted version of the following file:

```bash
HEROKU_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
```

You can get the Heroku API Key from your [Heroku Dashboard](https://dashboard.heroku.com/account) or other methods outlined in the [Heroku documentation](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/platform-api-quickstart#authentication).

## Service Definition

In the `codeship-services.yml` we're starting a Docker build with the aforementioned `Dockerfile.deploy`. We can then use the newly created container to deploy our application through the `codeship-steps.yml`.

```yaml
herokudeployment:
  build:
    image: codeship/heroku-deployment
    dockerfile_path: Dockerfile.deploy
  encrypted_env_file: heroku-deployment.env.encrypted
```

## Deploy Steps

The container has a `deploy_to_heroku_app` script that you need to call with your application name. The script will then check that it has access to the application and deploy it.

As the container has the Heroku Toolbelt installed you can use other Heroku commands in further steps, e.g. to run your database migrations.

```yaml
- service: herokudeployment
  command: heroku_codeship deploy codeship-heroku-deployment
- service: herokudeployment
  command: heroku run --app codeship-heroku-deployment -- bundle exec rake db:migrate
```
