---
title: "Tutorial: Caching"
layout: page
weight: 45
tags:
  - docker
  - tutorial
categories:
  - docker
---

* include a table of contents
{:toc}

## Using Caching

Please see the [example in the codeship-tool examples repository](https://github.com/codeship/codeship-tool-examples/tree/master/17.caching) of how to use caching.

As part of your build pipeline, Codeship now supports storing the Docker image cache and retreiving this in order to speed up your builds. To achieve this, when cached builds are pushed to a registry, we also push a caching tag, unique for a specific branch. Before those cached builds are built, the caching tag is pulled which populates the local docker image cache. Depending on the Dockerfile being used, this can speed up the build considerable.

Caching is disabled by default, so in order to use caching with your build, you musut add a `cached` declaration to your services description:

```yml
app:
  build:
    image: codeship/foo
    path: testpath
    dockerfile_path: Dockerfile.foo
  cached: true
```

Every time the `app` service is built, Codeship will first try and pull down `codeship/foo:codeship-cache-$BRANCH` to populate a local docker image cache. Because of this pull, you'll need to provide an encrypted dockercfg file for steps using the service which contains credentials for the registry being used.

```yml
- service: app
  command: make test
  encrypted_dockercfg_path: dockercfg.encrypted
```

After the image has been built, in order to update the caching tag your image must be pushed to that registry. You should not push directly to the caching tag, but allow Codeship to push alongside your own push to another tag:

```yml
- service: app
  type: push
  image_name: codeship/foo
  image_tag: foo
  registry: https://index.docker.io/v1/
  encrypted_dockercfg_path: dockercfg.encrypted
```

## Optimizing your build to use the Docker image cache

In order to full utilize the caching provided by Codeship, you should optimize your Docker builds to fully utilize the Docker image cache. Here is a simple guide to optimizing your build:

### 1. Order your Dockerfile

You should move all RUN steps which are not dependent on added files to the top of your Dockerfile. This should include any package installation, directory creation, or downloads. This way the image cache for these steps will not be invalidated when an added file is changed. 

### 2. Separate dependent RUNs

Any further RUN commands, which are dependent upon added files, should be run ONLY after adding those specific files required. A great example of this doing a bundle install for a Ruby app. By adding ONLY the Gemfile and Gemfile.lock first, and running a bundle install, the image cache for the bundle install remains valid regardless of any changes across the entire project unless the Gemfile.lock itself is changed.

The various RUN commands should also be ordered according to frequency of invalidation. Any RUN commands which are dependent on files whose contents frequently change, should be moved to the bottom of the file. This way they are unliekly to invalidate a more stable cached image as a side effect. A good tie breaker for this situation would also be whichever image cache is larger should be placed higher in the file. 

### 3. Use a strict .dockerignore file

The more files which get added to the Docker image during an ADD or COPY, the higher the change that the image cached will be invalidated despite the functionality of the image remaining the same. To reduce the chances of this happening, strip down the number of files being added to the image to the bare essentials. Ignore any temporary files, logs, development files and documentation. A good rule of thumb for this process is, if the resulting image will not utilize a file or folder, add it to the dockerignore.

As always, feel free to contact [beta@codeship.com](mailto:beta@codeship.com) if you have any questions.
